---
title: LIME Diagnostics Paper
---

Research paper on visual diagnostic tools for LIME

### To Do

- Prepare for submission

### Questions for Heike

- Are the font sizes okay? 
  - I increase or decrease them all by the same constant easily
  - Would it be better if all text associated with a graphic was the same size?
- Can you write up definitions of the bullet data features (to be included in the readme)?
- Should we include definitions of the bullet features in the appendix?
  - Is it okay to use abbreviations for the feature names (I did that because otherwise I have to rerun the LIME applications)?
- Make sure to install limeaid again (I made some more updates)
- Should I change the font in the figures to Helvetica? The guidelines mention that this font family works nicely for lettering in figures. I currently have it set to Times.
- Is it okay if I delete the old GitHub repo with the longer version of the paper (and move the longer version into a folder of this repo called something like 'old version')? Then I will rename this repo.

### Instructions for Knitting Paper

1.  Pull repo from GitHub
2.  Install goodekat/lime and goodekat/limeaid
3.  Make sure the data folder has all up to date versions of these files
    (see note below about where to obtain these files)
      - hamby173and252\_train.csv
      - hamby224\_test.csv
      - sine\_lime\_explain.rds (optional - can delete and let code in paper create)
      - hamby\_lime.rds
      - hamby\_explain.rds
4.  Knit paper (via the paper.Rnw file)

Note: The data needed to knit the paper can be found in the Cybox folder called LIME-diagnostics-paper-data. Using my version of sine\_lime\_explain.rds is optional, since it does not take long to run, but the hamby files take a long time (approximately an hour).

### Description of Items in Repository

**Folders**

- `figure` contains the figures that are generated by R code when paper.Rnw is knit.
- `figure-static` contains the figures in the paper that are not generated by R.
- `submission` contains all of the files submitted to the ASA data science journal.
  - Note that the paper is specified slightly different in this folder in order to meet the requirements of the ASA data science journal. For example, the figure path in the .Rnw saves the generated figures in the main folder (instead of a figures folder), and the paths in the .Rnw file are different. It also contains additional files such as data (whereas the data used by the .Rnw file in the main folder is stored elsewhere).

**Files**

- `.gitignore` contains objects to be ignored by git.
- `paper.Rnw` and `paper.pdf` are the manuscript.
- `references.bib` contains the bibtex information for the 
- `WileyNJG-AMS.bst` and `WileyNJG-v2.cls` contain the latex formatting specifications for the ASA data science journal.

### Figure Font Size Information

The font sizes in the figures are calculated based on how the figures are scaled due to the specification of both fig.width and out.width in the Rnw file to ensure that they are consistent across figures. The text sizes are either set to 7 pt or 5.5 pt as indicated by the table below (note that the text in the manuscript is 9 pt): 

| Part of Graphic | Font Size |
| --------------- | --------- | 
| Title (except Fig 13 where explanation scatterplot titles are 7 pt) | 7 pt |
| Subtitle | 7 pt |
| Axis labels | 7 pt |
| Axis tick labels | 5.5 pt |
| Facet labels (general) | 5.5 pt |
| Facet labels (that act as x-axis or y-axis labels) | 7 pt |
| Facet labels (that act as titles for lime R package plots) | 7 pt |
| Legend titles | 7 pt |
| Legend labels | 5.5 pt |
| Interior labels (such as those created using geom_text) | 7 pt |

Note: A similar approach was used to ensure that line sizes are larger than 0.5 pt.
