
## To Do

  - Edit dataset descriptions in README and add to the readme.txt
    document for submission
  - Upload the files for submission and submit

# LIME Diagnostics Manuscript

<img src="figure-static/figure-readme.png" width="3600" />

This repository contains the files associated with the manuscript
“Visual Diagnostics of a Model Explainer – Tools for the Assessment of
LIME Explanations” by Katherine Goode and Heike Hofmann. The rest of
this readme contains:

  - information about the files in the repository,
  - instructions for knitting the manuscript,
  - descriptions of the bullet data used in the manuscript, and
  - information on the font sizes used for the figures in the
    manuscript.

## Description of Items in Repository

The contents of the folders and main directory are described below:

**`code`**

Contains the R code associated with the manuscript that is not directly
included in `paper.Rnw` (such as some external data cleaning and file
organization):

  - `data-preparation.Rmd` contains R code for preparing the raw bullet
    data (bullet training data, bullet testing data, and example
    matching signatures) to be used in the manuscript and saves zip
    versions of the data sets to be uploaded to GitHub
  - `figure-compression.Rmd` contains R code for compressing the static
    figure used in the manuscript to be uploaded to GitHub
  - `submission-steps.Rmd` contains the to do list and R code for
    preparing the files for submission to the ASA Data Science Journal.

**`cover-letter`**

Contains the files associated with the cover letter submitted to the ASA
Data Science journal.

**`data`**

Contains the data used to generate the manuscript:

  - `bullet-test.csv.zip` and `bullet-test.csv.zip` contain the data
    used for the bullet examples in the manuscript. Additional
    information about these files is included below under the heading
    “Additional Information on Bullet Data”.
  - `example-signatures.csv.zip` contains signature data from two
    matching bullet lands that is used to generate a figure in the
    manuscript.
  - `raw` contains the raw versions of the data files (from Heike and
    CSAFE) that the above datasets are derived from. *Do not alter these
    files in any way.*

**`figure-static`**

Contains the static figures associated with the project:

  - `figure-08-1.png.zip` is the one figure in the manuscript that is
    not generated using R code.
  - `figure-readme.png` is a figure used in the readme.

**`old-version`**

Contains the files associated with an old version of the manuscript that
is much longer the the submitted version

**`submission`**

Contains the files submitted to the ASA Data Science Journal. These
files are moved to this folder using code in the file
`code/submission-steps.R`. The only figures not included on GitHub are
the EPS figures that are submitted due to size constraints.

**Main Directory**

  - `.gitignore` contains objects to be ignored by git.
  - `paper.Rnw`, `paper.pdf`, and `paper.tex` are the manuscript. Note
    that `paper.pdf` and `paper.tex` are generated by `paper.Rnw`.
  - `README.Rmd` and `README.md` are the readme files that generated
    this output.
  - `readme.txt` contains descriptions of the data files that are
    included with the submission
  - `references.bib` contains the bibtex information for the references
    in the manuscript
  - `WileyNJG-AMS.bst` and `WileyNJG-v2.cls` contain the latex
    formatting specifications for the ASA Data Science Journal.

## Instructions for Knitting Manuscript

When the manuscript is knit, various files will be generated (such as
`data-bullet-explain.rds` and `figure-10-1.png`). The first time the
manuscript is knit, it will take a while (possibly up to several hours).
Once these files have been generated during the first knit, the
manuscript will take much less time to knit (approximately a few
minutes).

Follow these instructions to knit the manuscript:

1.  Pull the repository from GitHub.
2.  Install R packages [goodekat/lime](https://github.com/goodekat/lime)
    and [goodekat/limeaid](https://github.com/goodekat/limeaid) from
    GitHub using the remotes R package. (Note that goodekat/lime is a
    forked versions of
    [thomasp85/lime](https://github.com/thomasp85/lime) with minor
    changes to extract objects for the analysis in the manuscript.)

<!-- end list -->

``` r
remotes::install_github("goodekat/lime")
remotes::install_github("goodekat/limeaid")
```

3.  Knit manuscript (via the `paper.Rnw` file).

## Additional Information on Bullet Data

The data used in the manuscript for the bullet comparison examples is
described below. Note that this text is also included in the file
readme.txt that is submitted with the manuscript.

**`bullet-train`**

A dataset with 83028 rows and 14 columns that contains comparison
features from the Hamby 173 and 252 sets (XXX reference XXX). It
contains comparisons from 407 bullet-land signatures with some lands
missing due to tank rash or other reasons. This dataset is created using
the data available at XXX, which contains XXX. The only changes made to
the data from XXX were to remove any lands with tank rash, select only
variables of use for the manuscript, add a case variable, rename
`same_source` as `samesource`, and attach the random forest scores
associated with the comparisons. The variables in the data are as
follows:

  - case = ID number associated with the bullet-land signature
    comparison.
  - land\_id1 = ID associated with the first bullet-land in the
    comparison. The format is ‘study - barrel number - bullet number -
    land number’.
  - land\_id2 = ID associated with the second bullet-land in the
    comparison. Again, the format is ‘study - barrel number - bullet
    number - land number’.
  - ccf = the comparison feature of two signatures of cross correlation.
  - rough\_cor = the comparison feature of two signatures of rough
    correlation.
  - D = the comparison feature of two signatures of distance.
  - sd\_D = the comparison feature of two signatures of standard
    deviation of distance.
  - matches = the comparison feature of two signatures of matches.
  - mismatches = the comparison feature of two signatures of mismatches.
  - cms = the comparison feature of two signatures of consecutively
    matched striae.
  - non\_cms = the comparison feature of two signatures of
    non-consecutively matched striae.
  - sum\_peaks = the comparison feature of two signatures of sum of
    peaks.
  - samesource = indicator variable specifying whether the two
    bullet-lands are a match.
  - rfscore = the random forest score associated with the comparison in
    support of a match.

For further details about the signatures comparison features, see XXX.

**`bullet-test`**

A dataset with 364 rows and 14 columns that contains comparison features
from sets 1 and 11 of the Hamby 224 Clone sets (XXX reference XXX). Each
test set is arranged as a combination of three bullets: two known
bullets and a questioned bullet. Each bullet has 6 lands. The data
contains comparisons of bullet-lands within a set. With three bullets
with six lands per set, there are a total of (2 sets) x (3\! bullet
comparisons) x (6^2 land comparisons) = 432 comparisons. However, there
are only 364 comparisons in the `bullet-test` data. This is due to the
fact that some of the lands are missing from the data (probably due to
tank rank): land 4 from the unknown bullet in set 1, land 2 from bullet
1 in set 11, and land 4 from the unknown bullet in set 11. The variables
in the data are as follows:

  - case = ID number associated with the bullet-land signature
    comparison.
  - land\_id1 = ID associated with the first bullet-land in the
    comparison with a format of ‘study - set number - bullet number -
    land number’.
  - land\_id2 = ID associated with the second bullet-land in the
    comparison with a format of ‘study - set number - bullet number -
    land number’.
  - ccf = the comparison feature of two signatures of cross correlation.
  - rough\_cor = the comparison feature of two signatures of rough
    correlation.
  - D = the comparison feature of two signatures of distance.
  - sd\_D = the comparison feature of two signatures of standard
    deviation of distance.
  - matches = the comparison feature of two signatures of matches.
  - mismatches = the comparison feature of two signatures of mismatches.
  - cms = the comparison feature of two signatures of consecutively
    matched striae.
  - non\_cms = the comparison feature of two signatures of
    non-consecutively matched striae.
  - sum\_peaks = the comparison feature of two signatures of sum of
    peaks.
  - samesource = indicator variable specifying whether the two
    bullet-lands are a match.
  - rfscore = the random forest score associated with the comparison in
    support of a match.

For further details about the signatures comparison features, see XXX.

**`example-signatures`**

Contains the signature data from two bullet-land signatures that are a
match. The variables in the data are as follows:

  - land = Indicates where the observation corresponds to ‘Signature 1’
    or ‘Signature 2’
  - x = The x position of the signature
  - y = The y position of the signature

## Figure Font Size Information

The font sizes in the figures are calculated based on how the figures
are scaled due to the specification of both fig.width and out.width in
the Rnw file to ensure that they are consistent across figures. The text
sizes are either set to 7 pt or 5.5 pt (Helvetica) as indicated by the
table below. Note that the text in the manuscript is 9 pt (Times) and a
similar approach was used to ensure that line sizes are larger than 0.5
pt.

| Part of Graphic                                          | Font Size |
| -------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| Title                                                    | 7 pt      |
| Subtitle                                                 | 7 pt      |
| Axis labels                                              | 7 pt      |
| Facet labels that act as x-axis or y-axis labels         | 7 pt      |
| Facet labels that act as titles for lime R package plots | 7 pt      |
| Legend titles                                            | 7 pt      |
| Interior labels (such as those created using geom\_text) | 7 pt      |
| Axis tick labels                                         | 5.5 pt    |
| Facet labels (general)                                   | 5.5 pt    |
| Legend labels                                            | 5.5 pt    |

Note: The only figure that does not follow these values is Figure 11
where the facet labels were set to font size 5 (Helvetica) in order for
them to fit appropriately.
